erlang: restructure docs (#2541)
open-telemetry/opentelemetry.io: content/en/docs/instrumentation/erlang/instrumentation.md

including a dependency which calls the API and hooks into your project, like a
middleware for an HTTP server.

## Tracing

### Initialize Tracing

To start [tracing](/docs/concepts/signals/traces/) a
[`TracerProvider`](/docs/concepts/signals/traces/#tracer-provider) is required
for creating a [`Tracer`](/docs/concepts/signals/traces/#tracer). When the

> OpenTelemetry SDK Application (`opentelemetry`) boots it starts and configures a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
OpenTelemetry SDK Application (`opentelemetry`) boots, it starts and configures a
```

global `TracerProvider`. A `Tracer` for each loaded OTP Application is created
once the `TracerProvider` has started.

If a TracerProvider is not successfully created (for example, the
`opentelemetry` application is not booted or fails to boot), the OpenTelemetry

> APIs for tracing will use a no-op implementation and fail to generate data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
APIs for tracing will use a no-op implementation and will not generate data.
```
The word "fail" here may imply an exception being raised, which isn't the case.

                        %% a new process has a new context so the span created
                        %% by the following `with_span` will have no parent
                        Link = opentelemetry:link(Parent),

>                         ?with_span(other-process, #{links => [Link]},

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                        ?with_span('other-process', #{links => [Link]},
```
invalid atom otherwise.

                    # a new process has a new context so the span created
                    # by the following `with_span` will have no parent
                    link = OpenTelemetry.link(parent)

>                     Tracer.with_span :my-task, %{links: [link]} do

Reviewer: same question there. From memory I think Elixir will also require quoting the atom

Author: Yup, it should be `:"my-task"`

                                {another_attribute, <<"value-of-attribute">>}])
           end)
{{< /tab >}}

{{< tab Elixir >}}
Tracer.with_span :span_1, %{attributes: [{:"start-opts-attr", <<"start-opts-value">>}]} do
  Tracer.set_attributes([{:"my-attributes", "my-value"},
                         {:another_attribute, "value-of-attributes"}])
end
{{< /tab >}}

{{< /tabpane >}}
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

### Semantic Attributes

Semantic Attributes are attributes that are defined by the [OpenTelemetry
Specification][] in order to provide a shared set of attribute keys across
multiple languages, frameworks, and runtimes for common concepts like HTTP
methods, status codes, user agents, and more. These attribute keys are generated
from the specification and provided in
[opentelemetry_semantic_conventions](https://hex.pm/packages/opentelemetry_semantic_conventions).

For example, an instrumentation for an HTTP client or server would need to
include semantic attributes like the scheme of the URL:

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
{{< tabpane langEqualsHeader=true >}}

{{< tab Erlang >}}
-include_lib("opentelemetry_semantic_conventions/include/trace.hrl").

> ?with_span(<my_span, #{attributes => [{?HTTP_SCHEME, <<"https">>}]},

Reviewer: ```suggestion
?with_span(my_span, #{attributes => [{?HTTP_SCHEME, <<"https">>}]},
```
